This is a fantastic turnout.
I think this really shows how
much pent-up demand there is for
networking that's easier to use.
It's really exciting to
see so many people here.
So, we've got a lot of material to
cover right now and I'm going to
try to get through it quickly.
I want to cover why we're doing this,
why we're here.
Once I've identified the
problem we're trying to solve,
I want to talk about what
we're going to do about it,
and then I want to talk about how
we're going to achieve those goals.
And if I manage to convince
you all how great this is,
then you'll be interested in
the APIs at the end to tell
you how to make use of this.
So we'll start off with the why.
Over the last couple of decades,
the world has seen a huge list of
competing wide area networking protocols.
And the good news is that all of
those have gone away and died.
TCP/IP has won.
The one that is kind of still
hanging on there is AppleTalk,
and it's hanging on
because of ease of use.
If you're a vendor that makes a printer,
a network printer,
you still have to put an AppleTalk stack
in it because your Mac customers won't
buy it unless they can just browse in
the chooser and find it and print on it.
Now, we want to get rid of AppleTalk.
We don't want to get rid of
AppleTalk because it's bad.
It was a great protocol 15 years ago,
but we want to get rid of it because
it's a big burden to Apple to have
to support two protocol stacks.
It's a big burden to the printer vendors
to have to support two protocol stacks.
If you're writing a network game,
it's a big burden to have
to do AppleTalk and IP.
IP is one.
Let's do everything
with one protocol stack.
So let's consider the local area.
Similar kind of proliferation
of different kind of
interfaces and connectors.
And the good news is,
they're all gone as well.
What do we have today?
We have even more
different local connectors.
20 years ago--I'm talking
about 20 years ago,
before the Macintosh even
existed--you went to your computer
store and you bought a dot matrix
printer and it had a parallel port.
And every personal computer
had a parallel port.
You take it home, you plug it in,
it works.
You get this nice mono-spaced
80 column text out of it.
I'm not commenting on the
quality of the printing,
but there was only one way to plug it in.
Now you get printers that connect by USB,
by firewire, by ethernet.
A lot of high-end printers have the
little IRDA infrared window on them.
You can print over wireless.
What is the networking community
doing about this problem?
We're adding more ways to print.
Now, Bluetooth is a great technology.
The hardware guys came
up with a very small,
low-power chip that communicates
over short distances.
It's low cost, it's low power,
it's small, it's great.
But the problem then is that they
invented an entire scheme of addressing,
naming, service discovery, browsing,
printing protocols,
file exchange to go with that
cool new piece of hardware.
So we have Bluetooth file exchange.
We have FireWire file exchange.
Most of you have probably
never even used it,
but it exists.
There's a tool for doing
file transfer over FireWire.
You may remember the IR file exchange.
A hundred years from now,
our grandchildren are going to be here at
the developer conference being introduced
to the new hyperspace communication
with its hyperspace file transfer tool.
We need to stop reinventing
the world over and over again.
You know the cliche about standing
on the shoulders of giants.
Well, in the networking world,
it's sad to say that the networking
world achieves what it does by
standing on the toes of giants.
We need to stop reinventing the wheel.
So what are we going to do about this?
In the wide area, it's clear what we did.
We picked a single protocol and
we used that for everything.
Can we do the same thing for
local area communications?
If we could pick just one,
that would be a big improvement.
We'd have one protocol for
wide area and one for local.
Big improvement.
But maybe we can do better than that.
Maybe we can pick one
protocol for everything.
IP is clearly the one
protocol candidate here,
so can we use that for local
communications as well?
So I'm going to talk about how.
before we get into the timetable.
When I talk about using IP for local
communications in the same environment
you currently use a USB cable today,
a lot of you are probably thinking,
he's crazy.
Nobody wants to be typing in
IP addresses and subnet masks
and default gateways and all that
nonsense just to plug in a printer.
And you're absolutely right,
nobody wants to do that.
And it's because of that
perception of IP that easier
alternatives keep being invented.
But the question is,
can we make IP as easy to use as USB?
Several people have been asking questions
about how Apple thinks it's going to
impose this standard on the world.
And it's not that way around at all.
This started quite some time ago.
In fact, I've been working on this
since before I came to Apple.
And when Apple came to me and said,
"Why don't you come and work
for us?" Their pitch was,
"Can you think of any company that is
going to give you as much encouragement
for your ease of use ideas as Apple?"
And that was pretty compelling.
So that's why I came to
Apple to carry on this work.
For me, the roots of this starts back in
1977 when I was still a PhD student,
and we were discussing how hard
IP was to use on a Macintosh
mailing list called NetThinkers,
and we came up with this proposal
to just take AppleTalk name-binding
protocol and run it over IP,
and I'll talk a little
bit more about that later.
The next year in 1998 at an IETF meeting,
I was talking to a guy from
Microsoft in a bar about how we
ought to make networking easier,
and he had a proposal,
and I thought it was cool,
and we agreed on it.
And later that summer,
we shipped IPv4 link local addressing
in Windows 98 and in Mac OS 8.5.
Later that same year,
the discussions about browsing and
MVP kind of evolved into multicast DNS,
which I will explain.
And the IETF community realized
that maybe there was enough interest
in this to form a working group.
So we had a Birds of a
Feather session in March '99.
We had a second BOF session in July,
and at the end of '99,
the Zero Configuration
Working Group was officially formed.
I don't actually remember volunteering
to be chairman of that working group,
but somehow it happened, and so...
Almost three years later,
Apple has now made a public
commitment to this and announced
it under the name Rendezvous.
Lots of people have been asking
what is the relationship.
Rendezvous is Apple's name for ZeroConf,
just like Airport is
Apple's name for 802.11.
So the job of the working group,
before we even designed protocols,
was to get the IETF community to
agree on what the problem was.
And if you've ever tried to get a
thousand people to agree on something,
you'll know that that
can be a slow process.
But it's an important process because
one person standing up and saying,
"I think this is the answer,"
doesn't necessarily mean very much.
But if you can get people to agree
that that's the right answer,
then the industry can make progress.
And the working group agreed
on three requirements:
addressing, naming, and browsing.
And those are the three things I'm
going to talk about in more detail.
We have a draft,
which is the IETF mechanism for producing
documents that will become RFCs.
That draft is on version 10,
which kind of gives you an idea
of how contentious this has been.
And that draft lays out the reasoning
behind these three requirements.
Information about the Zero Configuration
Working Group can be found
at the zeroconf.org website.
So the first leg of ZeroConf is
linked local addressing.
You can't do much IP networking
if you don't have an address.
So that's the first problem.
Now, everything I want to
talk about today is very,
very simple.
This is not fancy and complicated and
big PowerPoint slides with architecture
diagrams with boxes and arrows to
impress my boss and get a pay rise.
What we want to do is do the
simplest thing to get the
job done and make a solution.
And this is not so much for Apple's
benefit as it is for everybody else's.
Because when you've got a gigahertz
processor and a gigabyte of RAM,
most software problems are fairly easy.
But if you're making
a $50 inkjet printer,
you don't have that luxury of
inefficient bloated software.
So there's no benefit to
Apple if this only works on Macs.
We need this to be running in all the
little peripheral devices as well.
So what's the simplest possible
solution we could think of?
Taking our lead from AppleTalk,
which did this very well,
pick a random address,
send an ARP request.
If nobody answers,
I guess no one's using that address.
You can have it.
So that was simple.
If you go home from this session today
thinking that wasn't very impressive,
everything he said was really obvious.
Then you got the point of the session,
right?
This is supposed to be simple.
So IANA,
the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority,
has reserved a range of
65,000 IP addresses for this
specific link local use.
And that's the 169.254 address range.
You may have seen this already because
this has been shipping for a while,
and a lot of people have the
perception that when they see
169.254 in the control panel,
that means networking is broken.
And it's understandable why
you would think that because
Link Local Addressing is like
one leg of a three-legged stool,
and when you only see the one leg,
it doesn't look like a very good stool.
So I'm here today to show
you the other two legs,
and hopefully the whole
picture will make sense.
I also want to say that IPv6
already has linked local addressing.
This is not competing with IPv6,
but this is a pragmatic realization
that many of the vendors making
hardware devices today putting IPv4
in are not ready to move to IPv6.
So this is an interim solution.
We hope two years from now
we'll all be running IPv6.
But in the meantime,
we have something that
works for v4 as well.
So the second layer
of ZeroConf is naming.
There's not much point having
a random IP address if no
one else knows what it is.
I mean, sure, you can read it out to the
person next to you and they
can type it in and that works,
but it's not the experience we want.
The conventional Internet usage
model is you type in a host name.
You type in the web browser,
you type FTP host name, Telnet host name,
Ping host name,
and there's a system called
DNS that looks up the address
that goes with that name.
So keeping with the spirit
of not inventing anything
new if we don't have to,
Can we do something very,
very similar to DNS?
And what we're proposing doing there is
just like with the addressing that we
carved off a chunk of addresses that are
designated special use local addresses,
We're talking about carving off
a subtree of the DNS namespace.
So any name that ends in
local.arpa is a link local name,
only relevant on the local link.
You resolve it by sending
a query by multicast,
not by sending a query to your
normal conventional DNS server.
The packet format is
exactly the same as DNS.
The records in the packet
are exactly the same.
The only difference is you send it to
the link local DNS multicast address.
And every machine on the network
runs a little responder just
like the AppleTalk MVP responder.
And when you see a request
that's asking for your name,
you send an answer.
Right now, we're using local.arpa
because the IETF kind of
logically owns the arpa domain,
and we're more free to play
underneath that subdomain.
Ideally, we would like it to be
named ending in .local,
and by the time this
standard is finished,
we hope it will be .local.
But for the Jaguar seed
you've got right now,
it's local.arpa.
There's a website specifically
about multicast DNS as well,
and there's also an internet
draft describing how that works.
So multicast DNS has a client
side and a responder side.
The multicast DNS responder
is on your Jaguar preview CDs,
and the client is also
on your Jaguar CDs.
So if you type hostname.local.arpa
into your web browser,
it will do a multicast and connect.
I'm going to show you that right now.
So here I've got a product.
Many of you probably have
things like this at home.
This is a Linksys firewall
home router thing.
Very nice product,
four port Ethernet hub, no screen,
no keyboard.
How do you configure this thing?
Well, 20 years ago,
devices like this would have
a serial port and you'd plug
a VT100 terminal into them.
In the 1990s,
the web browser kind of became
the VT100 terminal of the '90s.
It was the universal interface
you'd expect everybody to have,
and that's great.
But what do I type into my web browser?
How do I know what IP address this has?
The manual on page 38 tells
you the address it comes
configured from the factory,
but somebody could change that,
and how would you know?
And maybe it uses DHCP, but if it does,
you don't know what address it got,
and there's little hole you
can stick a pin in to reset it,
but it's not quite clear what that does.
It's a big hassle.
So this is what we'd like.
I want to emphasize something here today.
The only aspect of the demo
here that's rigged are the
products that Apple don't make.
Everything that's running on
Jaguar is absolutely real.
And if the hardware vendors in
this room want to put multicast
responders in their products,
they will work just like
this on real Jaguar systems.
So I want to connect to my
Linksys router to configure it.
I type Linksys.local.arpa.
That tells my Mac to multicast it.
I hit return.
We're talking to the Linksys router.
Okay, back to the slides, please.
So you hardware guys can
do this today and ship it.
The multicast DNS lookup
capability even exists in OS 9,
so you can ship a product that
does this today and actually
get some benefit from it.
So what we've achieved here is we've
kind of reached parity with conventional
Unix command line user interface,
which is to say,
someone has to tell you what to type,
and you have to type it
and not make any mistakes.
And if you get it wrong, it doesn't work,
and you don't know why.
So --
It's a huge step forward than
having to guess random IP addresses,
but we still want to do more.
And the great thing was we managed to
convince the ITF Working Group to not
just accept parity with the current
state of conventional IP networking,
but to raise the bar and do
something that AppleTalk always did,
and that's browsing the network.
And the IETF Working Group has agreed
that that will be listed as one of the
fundamental requirements to qualify
as Zero Configuration Networking.
We are not the first people
to think this was a good idea.
Over the last two decades,
history is littered with the corpses of
failed attempts to do browsing over IP.
It seems like every permutation
of the words "service discovery
resource location" in every possible
order have all been used up.
And the list goes on and on.
And I apologize if somebody's
favorite protocol is listed
here as not being a success.
But as far as I'm concerned,
until I can go to the computer shop
and buy a printer that does this stuff,
then it's not real.
I also apologize if anybody's
favorite failure is not on this list,
but we only have an hour, so I had to...
So why did all these things fail?
I think it was a couple of reasons.
They couldn't keep things simple.
Appletalk NBP is very, very simple.
And it's classic second system syndrome.
When you come to repeat something,
you keep throwing in all the
features you wish you had first time.
And they get so complicated that
the only way to make these things
work is with exhaustive testing.
But if you've got 450 companies,
that's the 100,000 testing matrix.
You can't do all that
by exhaustive testing.
You're going to have situations
where a customer buys a product
from company A and company B,
and they need to work together,
even though they've never
been tested together before.
And the only way you get
that is through simplicity.
The other reason I think they
failed is they made a couple
of fundamental mistakes.
They're very device-centric.
Because if you make hardware,
you think in terms of
things you can kick,
and you say,
I want to find the
devices on the network.
Okay, it's a device.
Now I need to talk to it
and find out what it does.
And then it becomes very complicated
because this might be a device
you've never heard of before,
so now you need to invent this
kind of description language
to describe what it does,
and things get very
complicated very quickly.
The important thing that AppleTalk did,
the real insight, is that people aren't
interested in finding devices.
They're interested in finding services.
I want to print.
Find me things that can print.
I don't care what kind of thing they are,
whether it's an all-in-one or
laser or inkjet or whatever.
I've got a client that speaks
a particular printing protocol.
Find me all the things
that I can talk to.
The other mistake that these
protocols made is they failed to
understand that browsing and use
are two different operations.
When you look in the chooser
for a printer you're browsing,
you find its name.
You do that once, typically.
Every day after that,
when you hit Command-P,
you're taking that name
and looking up its address.
And that's the second step.
And when I get further on,
it will become evident why
that's a significant difference.
The sad thing is,
they could have learned this
just by copying AppleTalk,
but a lot of people working
in the IP community,
certainly back then,
didn't think AppleTalk did anything
interesting and didn't think it
was worth learning what it did.
And I think that's why they missed
these fundamental requirements.
So we want browsing.
Now the question is,
the working group has already
agreed that we need multicast DNS,
we need naming when
there isn't a DNS server,
just like we need addressing
when there isn't a DHCP server.
None of this is opposed to DHCP or DNS.
Those are both great protocols.
The focus of zero conf is that
if you don't have a DHCP server,
your computer should do
something more than throw up
an error message saying help,
no DHCP server.
Because, like this situation,
that Linksys is my DHCP server.
If I can't talk to it to configure
it to turn on the DHCP server,
then I don't have one.
So, I
So these are complementary.
They're not trying to change existing IP.
They're trying to fill a big gap
where existing IP does nothing.
So we have multicast DNS.
That code is going to be in the device.
Rather than write a whole
bunch of different code,
maybe we could reuse that code.
I talked earlier about NBP over IP.
And in the discussions at the IETF,
somebody came up with a
very good idea and said,
"You know, trying to put AppleTalk on
IP is like mixing oil and water.
It'll never go.
The IETF will hate it.
They'll say it's an alien
protocol." But maybe,
just maybe,
the DNS protocol is semantically
rich enough to carry the exact same
information that you would have put
in an NBP packet using DNS format.
And that seemed like a
really interesting idea.
And it took us a while to work
out the answer to that question.
But suddenly we realized that we
don't even need to change DNS.
There are three useful facilities
in DNS that are well known,
but they've never been put
together in quite this way before.
The first one is that DNS can
return multiple answers.
If you have a multi-homed host,
you look up its address,
you don't get back one address,
you get back a list.
Everybody's familiar with that.
Every DNS server does that.
The second feature of
DNS is pointer records.
A PTR record is what you normally
see used for doing a reverse lookup,
when you want to go
from address to a name.
But in fact,
a PTR record is a generic pointer,
a link from somewhere in the
DNS name hierarchy to somewhere else.
So that's a facility
that we're going to use.
And the third feature is
something called SRV records,
service records.
Normally when you look up a host name,
you get the address.
You look up www.apple.com,
you get the address where
that service is running.
But not the port number.
And that's why everything has
to have well-known port numbers.
Web servers always run on port 80
because the DNS doesn't tell you.
The DNS tells you the address,
but it misses that last
bit of information.
SRV records fix that deficiency in DNS.
SRV records are supported in bind 8,
bind 9.
They've been around for about five years.
So that's not a new invention.
Putting these three things together,
we get something that nobody ever
thought you could do with DNS before,
and that's browsing.
So here's how I browse for
printers on the network.
And there's a very subtle point that
I want to draw attention to here.
If you want to design
networking protocols that work,
you have to have a behavioral
model of protocols,
which is, if it walks like a duck
and it quacks like a duck,
it's a duck.
It doesn't matter how that
protocol is implemented.
So if you're an AFP client,
you want to talk to AFP servers.
You don't care whether it's a
Mac server or a Windows machine or
a Unix machine running NetAtalk.
If it talks the protocol properly,
you're willing to talk to it.
And this query here is saying
something very specific.
It's saying I am looking for
services that speak the LPR protocol
over TCP on my local network.
And _printer there is the official
IANA protocol name for the LPR protocol.
That doesn't mean generically
all printers in a sense that
human beings think of them.
That means specifically things
that implement the LPR protocol.
That's the query because
I've got an LPR client.
I want to find things it can talk to.
And here are the answer,
or answers that come back.
Because all the devices on the
network run their own responder,
with multicast DNS you can get
a collection of responses back.
And here, the result for that PTR lookup,
we have four names: sales.printer.tcp,
marketing, engineering,
and third floor copy room.
Now you see we have uppercase, lowercase,
spaces, in fact it's all UTF-8,
kanji characters.
DNS supports all that.
Conventional host names don't.
Host names have to be letters, digits,
and hyphens, no spaces,
because you have to type
them on the command line.
But these are not host names,
these are service names,
so they're not bound by those
normal restrictions for host names.
The first label of each of these
names is the user-friendly name
that you display on the screen.
The user-friendly name isn't a separate
attribute because any time that the
real name of something and the name
you display are not the same thing,
then you get weird inconsistencies.
So there's a hard
one-to-one mapping here.
Its DNS name is what you
display on the screen.
And we have a graphical version of this.
If this looks a bit
reminiscent of the old chooser,
that's not a coincidence.
We have services, we have domains,
which are equivalent to zones,
and then we have the services
that we found in that domain.
So a service name has three components
which intentionally mirror the three
components of an AppleTalk MVP name.
That's the name of the service,
the type of the service,
and the zone or domain where it lives.
in multicast DNS service discovery,
the first label is the name,
the second two labels
are the protocol name.
That syntax with the underscores,
underscore print dot underscore TCP,
that's not our invention,
that's borrowed from the SRV RFC.
Because I'll--I've said this
before and I'll repeat it.
We're not trying to
invent new stuff here.
Anywhere something
exists that we can use,
we'll borrow that.
And the rest of the name
is the conventional domain,
could be apple.com, stanford.edu,
whatever.
And there's the example repeated.
We've got the name, we've got the type,
and we've got the domain.
If the domain is local.arpa,
that means multicast
on the local network.
But if the name is apple.com,
it means send this query to
the regular Apple name server
just like any other query.
And you can use standard Unix tools
like NSLookup to do these queries.
You don't have to change
a single line of C.
This already works with
the tools you have.
So I want to stress this
thing about service types.
They're not human-readable strings.
They're opaque identifiers
that name protocols.
And that list of protocol
names is maintained by IANA.
And there's a list of
them on their website.
And if you want one of your
own for your own protocol,
getting a name and a default well-known
port assigned is really easy.
Just fill in the form,
answer a few questions,
and you can get a port number
and a protocol name of your own.
So one of the questions that
have been asked an awful lot is,
"We don't want all this
AppleTalk stuff on IP.
AppleTalk's really
chatty and it's horrible,
and now you're doing that to IP as
well." And the answer is we're not.
We have been very,
very careful not to have some
of those problems of AppleTalk.
When AppleTalk was designed
more than 15 years ago,
what it did was appropriate,
but we have better technology now.
So the demon that's running in
the background on your Jaguar
machine is aggressively caching
all the information it sees.
Replies are sent by multicast,
so if one person is looking for printers,
then other people get to see the
responses and store those in the cache.
So if they later look for printers,
they don't have to ask
the same question again.
With AppleTalk,
if you're looking for printers,
you send an MVP query saying,
"I'm looking for printers,"
and you get 50 responses.
And a second later, you say,
"I'm looking for printers," and
you get another 50 responses.
It's very inefficient.
With multicast DNS service discovery,
the query includes a list
of answers you already know.
So you do a query, you get 50 answers.
Then you issue another query with
those 50 answers embedded in it,
and all you get then is maybe
the one or two that you missed.
So that's much more efficient.
If you've got two machines on the
network that have the same information,
then when one sees the other answer,
it will suppress its own reply.
If you've got two people
browsing for printers,
when I see you ask for printers,
I'll suppress my own question
because there's no point in me
asking the same question as you.
When I open a printer browser,
or whatever,
I keep talking about printers
because printers is a concrete
example of something that
we all deal with day to day,
but
The real potential of ZeroConf is much,
much broader than that,
but I want to try to keep this
grounded in reality for this talk.
I think a lot of you out there
are already thinking of cool
things you could do with this and
cool new products you can make.
And that's really what's
exciting about this.
It's not just about making
current products easier to use.
It's about enabling whole new kinds
of products that you wouldn't have
dreamed of making before because the
support costs would have killed you.
But now they've become viable,
and that's what's exciting.
So when I open a browser
looking for some service,
I don't keep pounding on the network.
I send a query, and I wait a second.
I send another two seconds, four seconds.
It backs off exponentially down
to a kind of quiescent rate
of about one query an hour.
So very low load on the network.
So the question you might ask is
if I'm only asking once an hour
and somebody plugs a printer in,
am I going to have to wait
an hour before I see it?
And the answer to that is whenever a
new service starts up on the network,
it announces its presence with
the same kind of algorithm,
one second, two, four, eight,
backing off,
so that it sends about ten packets
spaced over about an hour and
then it doesn't announce anymore.
But that means that when a
new service comes online,
you get to find about it in a
timely fashion without pounding on
the network polling all the time.
So a lot of work has gone
into improving the efficiency
So I've talked about the browsing.
I've talked about finding the name
of the service you want to use.
And remember I said,
service discovery is a two-step process.
There's browsing and then there's using.
Now I'm going to talk
about the using stage.
So we found a name:
sales.printer.tcp.local.arpa.
Well, what is that the name of?
That is the name of a DNS service
record that describes how
you can reach the service.
With DHCP,
the address might change day to day.
With dynamically allocated ports,
it might not be in the
same TCP port every day.
But DNS SRV records let you look that
up on demand and get fresh information.
So here's the query that I send,
and here's the answer that I get.
The sales printer today is on port
515 on IP address 16925412.34,
and the Q name for that printer is LPT1.
I could actually move that printer
to a different print server,
which may be using a
different LPR Q name,
but by putting this
information in the DNS,
you can hit Command-P,
and you're still printing
on your default printer.
You don't need a different LPR.
You can just use the same LPR.
need to be aware of the fact
that the administrator has
reorganized the network.
So now we're going to do another demo.
Typing stuff in to connect to this
Linksys router was all very well,
but it would be much
nicer to browse for it.
So let's look for things on
this network that speak HTTP.
Oh, there we are.
And I talked about UTF-8.
Everybody says, "Oh,
we're international." I just wanted
to show that we really mean it.
We have some Japanese text there.
I think that says "Japanese" in kanji.
I don't speak Japanese,
but somebody can correct me if I'm wrong.
So when I select that,
we get its address.
We get the port number.
Click Connect.
Now we didn't even need
to know what to type.
We just browse for it.
So I brought some other
cool toys as well.
This is a wonderful little
camera made by Axis.
This thing runs Linux.
It's got a web server in it,
an Ethernet port on the back.
Cost about $400.
Takes about four hours to set it up.
But what if this had multicast DNS?
I take my cable, I plug it in.
Link Flight comes on.
And give it a few seconds.
That was so cool, I bought another one.
Let's give that a second,
see if that shows up.
Okay, back to the slides.
So,
browsing with DNS is a system-provided
API in your Jaguar seed
DNSserviceDiscovery.h is
the name of the header file.
I'm going to talk about the APIs,
but you can find that on the disk.
We have a little bit of sample
code on the Apple developer site.
If you're making a hardware device
and you want to put this in,
there's a couple of ways you can do it.
You can read the draft and implement it,
and that's fine.
This is an open standard.
But if you want to save time,
save development time
and save debugging time,
We're willing to give
you the source code.
When Jaguar ships,
all of this source code for
the Jaguar MB&S responder in
portable C will be in Darwin.
If you're a hardware vendor
that's really in a hurry to ship
a product before that time frame,
contact Tom Weyer and we can give you
an advance copy of that source code.
We don't have the resources to
support every company doing that,
but a small number,
if you've got products you really want
to ship and you're excited about this,
by all means contact
Tom and we'll work with you.
find out more about what this is doing,
because you don't really believe me,
you can look at this stuff in EtherPeak.
That's the cool thing about
using a standard packet format,
is that EtherPeak already knows how
to debug and decode DNS packets.
The only thing it doesn't know is
that multicast DNS is using port 5353.
So you just need to open your
IETF.dcd decoder file with whatever
favorite text editor you want,
find the line that
recognizes DNS packets,
and duplicate that and make
another recognizer that says 14E9,
which is 5353 in hex,
go to the DNS decoder.
You don't need to write all that down.
The instructions are on the
multicastdns.org website.
But you put that one
line in your decoder,
you can look at all the packets
that your Jaguar seeds are sending
out and see exactly what they're
So, ZeroConf is cool for Apple,
but we really have it easy because
we have computers that have got
screens and keyboards on them.
So, setting them up is,
relatively speaking,
not as hard as it is for
somebody who's got a device
without a screen and a keyboard.
So, the router, the cable modem,
airport base station,
anything like that is a
perfect candidate for this.
Network printers, the video camera,
another example.
Rack mount servers.
I don't know whether any of you
guys have been into a data center,
but it's crazy what they have there.
They have the racks of servers,
they have all the
spaghetti ethernet wiring,
and they have spaghetti serial port
wiring going to like a Livingston port
master or a Cisco 3600 so that they
can sit with their serial terminal.
And they've got like a logical
serial network where they can log
in to any server over the serial
port to type commands to it.
And for the disk arrays,
they've got a fiber channel network.
So,
they're running three parallel networks.
They're running three parallel
networks through their data center.
All of this could be done over IP.
With zeroConf,
you don't need the serial ports.
You can just telnet or SSH to the server.
It doesn't matter if its
IP configuration is messed up,
because if it has a linked local address,
you can talk to it anyway to fix
its standard IP configuration.
There's also an ITF working group
working on doing SCSI over IP,
because what a lot of the disk
people have realized is that their
expertise is in making really,
really good hard disks,
not in making communication technologies.
So they've kind of said, well, listen,
we'll let you gigabit Ethernet
guys and 10 gigabit Ethernet guys
build the cool network hardware,
and we'll just build the disks.
So there is a move right now,
and it is a move.
It may be a couple of years away
before you see products that do this,
but there is a move to running everything
over IP so that you have one cable
going into that server instead of three.
A lot of you may have TiVos in the house.
When people get a TiVo,
they like it so much they buy a
second one for the bedroom TV.
And then what's the
problem that you have?
You've got the shows
recorded on the wrong TiVo.
Networking home appliances
like this is going to be a
huge application for ZeroConf.
And there are many, many more,
which I'm sure you're
already thinking of.
I had a bunch of examples here of things
that I thought would be cool products,
but every time I said them, Steve said,
"Ooh, that's a good product.
Don't tell them about that." So I'll
have to leave that to your imagination.
So now, Eric's going to help
me with another demo.
Browsing to find a
service is really cool,
but this is zero configuration,
not little bit of configuration
or easy configuration.
So,
I want to show you a demo here
which some of you have seen before,
but we have a bit more time now to
tell you exactly what's going on.
I have a document here.
To prove this is live,
on the corner here.
Can I get your name?
Howard.
Howard, okay.
I know Howard,
but he was the first person I saw say,
"We'll use Howard,
but this is not rigged."
So type in howd.
Now I'm going to print this document.
But you see,
I just bought this Mac in my scenario.
I don't have a printer.
It's never had a printer.
It's never had a print queue.
So I go down to my computer
store and I buy a printer.
This printer's never
been turned on before.
It's never been configured.
Can we plug in the printer, Eric?
Now you're thinking,
I've got my computer,
I've got my printer,
they're plugged in with a cable.
What does the computer
think I want to do with it?
That's what I want to do with it.
One finger, hit the return key,
and we'll see whether that works.
The printer might take
a minute to warm up.
Oh, no.
So I want to stress
that this is not rigged.
This is real.
You put a multicast
responder in your printers,
they will do this with Jaguar.
Thank you, Eric.
Okay, so let's move on.
Actually,
there's one more thing I want to do.
Eric, do you have your laptop there?
Yeah, I've got it.
Why don't you plug that
Ethernet cable into your laptop?
You can open it up.
Eric told me earlier he had
a file he wanted to give me,
and we've talked about all
these file copying tools.
So,
I'm not going to touch the keyboard here.
Let's see what this is doing.
Oh, that's the disk of Eric's laptop.
Thanks, Eric.
So now I hope I've convinced
you that this is cool stuff.
I'm going to tell you about the
APIs that you can use in Jaguar
to use this in your products.
Back to the slides, please.
Thank you.
So, there are APIs at various
levels you can use.
The lowest level API sends marker
messages to the MDNS responder daemon.
You can use this in standard Unix
tools like Apache that aren't linking
with the rest of the OS X framework.
All of the APIs here take
a common kind of format,
which is you make some call,
DNS service something,
and it returns you a
DNS server discovery ref.
From that ref, you extract a mark port,
which you have to listen for messages on.
You can add it to a mark port group.
You can create a CF mark port from
it and add it to your CF run loop if
you've got a run loop application.
And whenever you get a
message on that port,
it's your responsibility
to call DNServiceDiscovery,
handle reply.
And then when you're finished,
you deallocate.
So here are the three
APIs I want to talk about.
You have a service.
You're running a web server, SSH daemon,
a game, whatever it is.
You want to advertise that that's
existing on the network and
listening for incoming connections.
You give the name, the type, the domain.
For now,
I suggest you just pass empty string
for the domain to mean the default.
In the shipping version of Jaguar,
you'll be able to register on unicast
domains as well as on local multicast,
but for now, stick to local multicast.
You pass the port number you're
using because you may not be
using the well-known port.
You have a text record,
which you can use for any additional
information that your protocol needs.
In the case of the
HTTP for the web server,
that additional information was the
path of the URL you want to fetch.
And you also pass a function
pointer for a callback function,
which will be called if
there's a name conflict.
If someone else is using your name,
you'll get called,
and that's your opportunity to either
programmatically generate a new name
just by incrementing a digit on the end,
or you can prompt the user and say,
Stuart's computer is already
in use on this network.
Please pick a different name.
Your choice.
For browsing,
you tell it the type and the
domain you're looking for,
and it gives you callbacks telling
you when it finds services.
You'll see the template here is
very similar to the last one.
It's just that you
don't provide the name,
the port,
and the text record because that's what
you're going to learn in the reply.
Once you've browsed and found a service
and maybe stored that in a preference
file or whatever you want to do with it,
when it's time to use that service,
you need to resolve it
to get an IP address.
And there you give the name, the type,
and the domain,
and when the service resolves,
normally very quickly,
normally in a millisecond or two,
your callback gets called.
The reason it's an asynchronous
callback API is because if the Ethernet
cable's being unplugged or something
else has gone wrong with the network,
it may not complete immediately.
And users hate it when the
whole UI freezes because
something isn't working.
So if you want to give your
customers a pleasant experience,
you need to make everything asynchronous.
If there's a lengthy operation,
put up a dialogue with a cancel
button so that they're in control.
There's nothing users hate more than
seeing the spinning pizza of death and
not being able to do anything about it.
So that's the simplest low-level API.
And if you're writing a simple
daemon that doesn't link
with any other frameworks,
that may be the best one for you.
But we have some other choices as well.
So moving one level up
from the Markport API,
CFNet Services provides a very
nice API that fits in much more
nicely with the programming model
of the rest of Core Foundation.
And moving forwards,
you'll expect to see new
functionality and more ease of
use happening at that layer.
Above that,
Directory Services and NSL are also
clients of that same CFNet Services API.
Right now, you can use things like the
NSL browser to access multicast DNS,
but you don't get all
of the functionality.
For instance, you can browse the
network and find services,
but when you select them,
what's returned is a resolved
URL with an embedded IP address in it,
which is great if you want
to use the service right now,
but if you want to save that
away in a preference file,
saving an IP address is not good.
You want to save the name.
So there are plans for adding that
support in Directory Services and NSL,
but not in the Jaguar timeframe.
So now I'd like to invite Jeremy Wyld
to come up and tell you the
details about the CFNet services.
Thank you.
So I just want to talk briefly up here,
and then we'll get Stuart back up,
talk some more.
I want to talk to you about a set of
APIs called CFNet Services that are
located in the CFNetwork framework.
In order to do that,
I need to quickly give you a
one-slide overview about CFNetwork.
CFNetwork is an abstraction of
common networking protocols:
SSL, HTTP, and of course, Rendezvous.
CF network is built and written
in the style of core foundation.
That means we have CF types,
we create CF types, we use CF types,
and then you get the use of the core
foundation's reference counting,
so CF retain, CF release.
CF Network is located in the
Core Services umbrella framework,
so that's what you'll link against
in order to get this stuff.
To underline CF Network,
all of Apple uses CF Network for its
underlying networking protocol usages.
So,
applications and frameworks like Mail,
iChat, NS Services located in Foundation,
and then also NSL uses CF Network.
This, of course,
is where CF Net Services is located.
CF Net Services is your abstraction
layer for performing your rendezvous,
DNS discovery APIs.
We have two types, two CF types.
We have a CF Net Service and
a CF Net Service Browser.
A Net Service represents single
entity then on the network,
and then the Net Service Browser
represents search for
those services or domains.
So these two objects,
how do you go about using them?
There's one usage model
for both these objects.
You're going to create them,
you're going to schedule
them on a run loop,
then you're going to tell them
to perform whatever they do.
You tell them to run,
and then you sit back and wait to
handle the callbacks as they occur.
There's going to be three main
tasks that you're going to want to
perform when using these objects.
You're going to want to
advertise your service,
you're going to want to find services
that are published on the network,
and finally you're going to
want to connect to and use
a service on the network.
So what I want to do is
take a sample HTTP server,
I'm going to walk through some code,
you can just assume
that this HTTP server,
like Stuart showed,
is just listening on the network.
There's no pre-advertised port.
We don't tell someone
that's listening on port 80.
So here I'm going to
register our service.
We create the object,
we schedule it on a run loop,
and then we tell it to register.
The things that I want to point out here,
we're registering it on local domain
indicated by the empty string.
We're doing HTTP.
We've given some name.
It could be the name of the computer.
It could be something we asked the user.
But the one important
note here is the port.
Assume the port to be opaque.
In this case,
just assume we want and asked the
port for its local binding address.
We're just going to
register it on the network.
At some point in the future,
we're going to get an
error for some reason.
The most common,
or the most important error
that you'll want to really,
uh,
Take account for is the name collision.
So someone else on the network
has a service registered by the
same name on the same domain.
At that point you want
to formulate a new name.
So you could add a one or a two
to the end or you could prompt
the user and ask for a new name.
Either way we'll go
ahead and register it.
And finally we just go ahead
and clean up the object.
So we've got this service
registered on the network.
There's going to be someone out
there that wants to use your service.
Or hopefully they want
to use your service.
Very similar.
We create the object.
We schedule it on a run loop.
We tell it to go find services.
So we're telling it to go find
services of the HTTP type.
Hopefully we'll find
things on the network,
things will go away, our callback fires.
We're going to be told to add items
to a local caching list or remove
items from a local caching list.
And I'll do just that.
Now, the one thing to note here is this
KCF Net Service More Coming flag.
This is used to indicate that very
soon after you return from this call,
you're going to get this call again.
This is to handle large networks
where you have lots of services on it.
So instead of having one of those
apps that flickers every time
something comes in and goes away,
this will help you prevent that.
So you wait to do the update when
you don't get this flag then.
So we've got one registered.
We've got someone out
there finding these things.
At some point, someone's going to say,
"I want to use that service,"
like Stuart did in his browser.
How are they going to connect
to and resolve that thing?
This is very,
very similar to the registration.
Instead of performing the register,
we're going to perform a resolve.
The other thing to note here is
that we're creating the object
with a zero for the port value.
The port is not important
when we're resolving.
We're going to go to the network
and ask it for this thing's address,
which will have the port in the address.
So at some point in the future,
that thing is found on the network.
Our callback fires were going to
be given an address inside of the
CFNet service that we were looking up.
Now the thing to note is that this stuff
is inherently multi-homing supported.
So when we call to get the
address from the Net service,
we'll get an array of addresses.
And then the right thing really to do is
go through each one of those addresses,
trying to find the one that
will eventually connect for you.
Um, the values or pieces of data that
are inside the array are simply
SOC adders that are wrapped as CFDatas.
Had we not gotten a no-error response,
we simply clean up our object,
toss it away.
So that is a quick
overview of CFNet services,
how to use them.
I invite you to go and look
at the headers in CFNetwork.
And I would also suggest that
you try getting notes or seeing
the sessions 805 and 808,
which covers CFNetwork and
CFRunLoop and CFStreams.
So what's next for you guys?
If you're software developers,
use the Jaguar APIs.
If you're hardware developers,
build ZeroConf into your products so
that everything can talk to each other.
And
This is not just for Macs.
One of the great things about multicast
DNS is you can write an application
that sends and receives those packets,
so you're not hostage to the operating
system vendor providing the support.
This is not like something like
TCP that's got to be in the operating
system before you can use it.
I'd like to invite Bob Bradley to
come up on the stage.
Bob works on airport.
Bob has been responsible for the
Windows airport configuration tool
and a bunch of other airport software.
So I've just said that you
could make this work on Windows.
I want to show you that it does.
So, very quick demo,
but we have multicast
DNS running on Windows.
Of course, that means we have multicast
DNS running in the firmware of
the airport base station as well.
This is 3,000 lines of very portable C,
so it should be easy for just
about any hardware vendor.
If you've got a processor and firmware,
you should be able to fit this in.
Thank you, Bob.
Here are some interesting sessions.
Now, these are all in the past,
but you can get these on DVD.
If you want to find out
more about networking and
specifically the CF network APIs,
those sessions are available on DVD.
If you've got questions,
specifically if you want to
get the Apple source code,
contact Tom Weyer about that.
On your preview Jaguar
seed CDs that you have,
dnsservicesdiscovery.h
is the low level APIs.
There is also sample code showing how to
use the high level CFNet service APIs.
For general information about the IETF,
go to the IETF website.
The IETF is a completely
open organization.
There are no membership fees.
If you're interested in Zeroconf,
please sign up for the mailing list,
participate in the discussions,
because that's how the work gets done.
If you want to register your own
port number and protocol name,
go to the IANA website.
And if you just want to find out
more about how all this stuff works,
zeroconf.org, multicastdns.org,
and dnsservicesdiscovery, dnssd.org,
give you information about that.